It's unbelievable!
I've been into this profession
of Medicine for 20 years...
I've never been a witness to such
unnatural incidents.
However, such cases are there
in medical books!
But coming across
such cases, is rare!
Even if I deal with mysteries...
you've left me speechless!
Finally, I got a case,
I'd enjoy while investigating.
- Start from the beginning!
That man is born with his
heart on the right side...
And the porcupine quill
was stabbed on the left side...
piercing his lungs.
As long as the quill is there,
blood won't ooze out...
But he might die
due to excess blood loss,
if I try to surgically remove it.
Anyway,
I removed it carefully...
The quill was
deep inside his body...
This is the fourth case
that came to me...
And then?
Luckily there wasn't
much blood loss.
He came back to his
senses. He survived.
See Madam Deepa, uhh...
Your husband was
deeply wounded, but...
now he's out of danger.
Then why can't I be with him?
- He's on sedatives. He needs rest.
What will you do...
- I'll sit here the whole night,
if I'm not allowed to go in his room...
But no one can enter his room
apart from the doctor and the nurses!
I won't disturb him!
I'll just sit in a corner...
Please help me!
I had handled two
similar cases earlier, Mr. Ajit!
Wounding someone
with porcupine quills...
Madam Deepa!
Are you married,
Mr. Byomkesh?
Yes...!
Then you definitely know that,
women are way too emotional!
Now what if she
embraces her husband,
and gets emotional, then that might
turn fatal for the healing patient!
No, that won't happen Doctor!
She's intelligent enough
not to do such things!
- Intelligent?
- Yes.
Even I felt,
my wife is intelligent...
Anyway, so...
You're saying she's
sensible enough...
Uhh... yes
you can trust me!
Listen, I don't
know what to do...
My father and brother have
started searching for a groom for me!
Which means, no ties
with my family at all!
My grandfather will never
accept this!
Fine. You tell me
when to come?
Where are you going???
And that too,
all alone... where?
WHO ALLOWED YOU TO
STEP OUT OF THE HOUSE?!??
Get inside.
Get inside!!!
I won't...
GET INSIDE, ELSE I'LL
CROSS MY LIMITS!!!
"I want to marry someone...
Hence I'm leaving this house...
Don't try to search for me.
Sincerely,
Deepa."
With whom are you going away?
And what is his name?
I'm telling both of you...
For our family's honour,
as soon as possible...
Find a groom, and marry her off!
Else, we'll be doomed!
The first time
I saw you Deepa, I...
What happened?
I...
want to sleep separately.
That's alright.
Sit here for a while...
I want to tell
you something. I...
Please, don't hesitate.
Come and sit...!
I'm sorry to say this,
but I love someone else...
Then why did you marry me?!
You could've married
the person you love!
He's not from my caste.
My family forced me to marry.
I apologize, but believe me
I had nothing to do!
Will you allow me to stay here?
I'll never disturb you.
Debashish!
Deepa's innocent!
She lives in her
world of fantasies!
Give some time,
she'll settle down...
I somehow don't feel so.
You know how women are!
It's her bad associations,
I tell you!
But we never indulged her!
I can vouch for
women of our family!
Don't worry.
I'll handle it
sensibly. Alright?
Mr. Bijay!
I believe, Deepa's love...
was indeed childish.
It was temporary!
You all have your conversations
at Mr. Nripati's place, right?
Yes.
Who all are there in his family?
He stays all by himself.
His wife died a few years back.
Aren't you feeling
sleepy, Master?
You are young enough to start a
family life again, Master!
Should I prepare
a cup of Ovaltine for you?
No... I'll
go out...
around dawn. Keep the
door open.
As you say, Master.
All set for Mr. Nripati's place
tomorrow evening?
Haven't decided yet.
Please come, will be there!
See you.
- Ajit, Rakhal... let's go!
- Let's!
- See you soon...
- See you.
Deepa...
When did you arrive?
So you woke up, Sir?
Will you have something?
Water?
I'll go get Ovaltine.
How're you feeling now?
He had a narrow escape...
But he has to stay
here for 2-3 days more.
Ok, so can we meet him?
Of course!
But not more than 10 minutes.
That's more than enough!
You're here since last night,
Deepa Madam, now...
you have to leave us
alone for an hour.
Hello, Mr. Byomkesh!
Even I was telling her.
Ok. See you in
30 minutes.
I'll be with him.
Don't worry.
How're you feeling?
Uhh...
Slightly better.
I'll just ask few questions.
Did you go to the
lake area yesterday evening?
Not to wander, but yes I did go.
Why?
A friend of mine had called me.
Yes, brother!
Brother, can you lend
me a thousand rupees?
I have an emergency.
I'll return the whole amount next month.
Why didn't you tell
this over the phone?
I would have brought it. I'm not
carrying this amount right now, but...
I'll hand you over at brother
Nripati's place the next day.
Alright?
Ok brother...
See you...
So you'll go right?
I'll spend some time here...
As you wish.
Go safely.
I'll...
Did you see anyone behind?
No...
I hope your wife knows,
that your heart is on the right side.
Maybe... she
doesn't.
She doesn't?
No.
And your friends?
I don't have many friends,
but...
I have colleagues.
Do they know?
No.
Someone from your circle
at Mr. Nripati's place?
No, Mr. Byomkesh.
No one knows?
No...
No, my father and doctor knows.
Is there anyone,
who wants you to die?
No...
Mr. Byomkesh!
Is this an act of insanity?
Either that person is mad, or...
acting as a mad person!
How come?
For example, you...
portray so many personas
on screen and mesmerize us!
Likewise, acting insane will help the
person escape punishment!
Asylum can be
his place, at the most!
He won't be hanged!
You all are friends
of Mr. Debashish...
And must be knowing
a lot of things about his life.
We don't know him
for a long time...
Except Prabal.
He was Debashish's classmate.
But we were not friends.
It's just like...
Major chord...
and Minor chord...
Just a slight difference...
Not really a friend, yet...
an aquaintance.
We weren't enemies either!
He went to Delhi after school...
We hardly met after that.
Then, 2 months back...
we met, here.
Yesterday,
around 8 P.M.,
did you ring up
Mr. Debashish?
Yes... from here
only.
Had used brother Nripati's
telephone.
We use it whenever needed.
We all were
together yesterday...
except Debashish.
That's why I rang him up.
Fine.
So after returning
from your meeting with him,
did you see anyone in that area?
No...
You didn't...
No.
By the way,
Mr. Bijay,
Your sister's belongings,
from her spinster days...
must be here?
Hmm, but why did you ask?
I'm just being the truth-seeker!
How far did Madam Deepa study?
She completed her schooling...
But wasn't admitted in
college...
I see.
Would you like some tea?
Why not!
What say Rakhal, Ajit?
Yes yes!
Put more sugar
in my cup, please.
I'm arranging for tea...
Fine..fine...
Goodness!
Huhh?
Not a single literary
work in the house!
Such a typical
orthodox family, imagine!
Brother Byomkesh!
Let me see!
What did you find
in the copy, Byomkesh?
It's an autograph copy...
and there're excerpts
from a poem written here...
"Byomkesh starts reading
the lines."
The rest are...
blank pages.
"Repeats the poetic
lines."
Who wrote this poem?
Someone from Mr. Nripati's
chat group.
- Let me see...
- No!
The road to the truth
is quite risky, Ajit...
Who knows which alleys
might lead to it!
Satya, you..
And here?
Weren't you unwell???
Uhh... yes! (Coughs)..
I mean...
I'm better today...
I was too unwell
till yesterday...
The weakness is still there...
you see...
Feeling uneasy...
But you didn't
inform before coming?
Is that a problem?
Not at all!
It's your house!
Ajit...
Ajit!
- Yes!
- Let's go.
Yes!
Uhh..Satya...
We've have appointment
with the doctor.
You must be tired.
Take a rest. Ok?
H-how are you...
Byom... Byomkesh!!!
God!
We have to hide everything
from Satya,
till the case solves!
How will you
face her after that?
I will be able to!
How?
If only you were also married!
I got it!
So, what next?
A trap to set...
However...
Now what?
The regular chat group of
Nripati Laha...
Do you know everyone?
They all are my
brother's friends.
They often visit
your paternal house!
Only if there's some work!
Do you know
Mr. Nripati is a widower?
Most probably...
Who's married amongst
them, do you know?
No.
Probably...
no one is.
And Prabal Gupta?
Probably not.
He is.
He lost wife recently.
Didn't know that...
How is Kapil Basu as a person?
Not bad...
Did you hear any
rumors about him?
No...
Do you like Sujan Kumar's
acting?
Quite like it...
How is he as a person?
Might be good, given he is
my brother's friend!
And, have you watched
Kharag Bahadur's games?
I haven't.
But have heard those
commentaries on radio.
Fine.
Now, my last question.
On which side is your
husband's heart located?
Right...
What?!
You know this!
Yes I do.
And how?
It's strange!
While checking his heartbeat,
I found...
Your husband's heart
is on the right side!
Miraculous!
I have no more questions.
You may go back to your husband.
Thank you.
About these porcupine quills...
I have created a theory.
Suppose,
I'm an unknown, insane person...
a 'mad' person...
And I am...
a murderer!
For no reason at all!
For no profit at all!
I'M IRRATIONAL!
Without reasons!
I love, to murder people!
I'm the priest of Death!
And I murder with the...
porcupine quills!
I...
tried to search, but I...
couldn't find.
For now, consider this...
as porcupine quill.
Anyway!
On the pretext of
casual walks...
I explore the city.
I see a beggar on the street...
The beggar life...
snatched by me!
Trsut me, I murder
for no reasons!
Then a day, just
like the other days...
I see, this time a labourer!
I have no secret intentions.
To murder, is in my nature!
Then a shopkeeper!
I have nothing to gain...
I'm... irrational!
I'm... unreasonable!
I love to murder people!
Who is it?
No matter who is it...
I murder!
Why are you sad?
Why... a
sad face?
I'll end all your worries...
I'm irrational...
I don't need any motif!
See...
Every time the weapon
was a porcupine quill.
The murderer wants to say...
that it was executed
by one man every time.
Now the question is...
Who's the murderer?
According to you,
he's amongst us?
Well... might be!
For example,
it can be you!
Then suppose...
What if it's Kapil?
Again...
It might be...
Sujan Kumar!
Kharag Bahadur!
It can be you also!
Even...
It might be,
Mr. Prabal!
Mr. Bijay!
It could be you even!
Again...
Again???
It might be an unknown,
insane person as well!
Imagine, Mr. Debashish has
a secret enemy...
Who wants to murder him.
But if he murders
Mr. Debashish first,
he's afraid he might get caught!
So after a beggar, a laborer
and a shopkeeper...
He was the fourth target.
He might appear a psychopath...
But his only target
was Mr. Debashish...
rest is just
his 'acting' as a psychopath.
No one can imagine this!
What if, another
murder happens after this?
With this porcupine quill?!
Then what will you say?
Will it make Debashish
the only target?
Where will your theory go then?
Then... another road
to be explored...
Byomkesh Bakshi!
Yes!
Fine... I'll
come alone!
Fine...
It worked!
Didn't expect so early!
- Come Ajit!
- Let's go!
I knew him since a long time...
Do you have a cigarrette?
It doesn't work... everytime!
"The poetic lines were
written by Prabal Gupta."
I knew you would do this...
to prove Debashish
isn't the only target!
You'll murder me,
and your intentions
will be served as well, right?
What rubbish!
The beggar was murdered,
on Deepa's wedding night...
Coincidence... isn't it???
Nonsense!
Keeping your married life
a secret...
you tried to woo Deepa...
with your Music!
Then, you try to
kill her husband!
Artistry, with such
a filthy mind!
Never ever play the piano
with this hand...
and belittle the art of Music.
Rakhal!
A musician like Prabal Gupta
could do this!
Can't believe...
Satya...
Freud once said...
To read an artiste's mind...
isn't a joke for even
the pyschiatrists!
But,
how could you be
so sure about...
Mr. Debashish being
the only target?
From a beggar,
to an industrialist..
Isn't this calculation enough?
And Debashish knew only...
the chat group at
Mr. Nripati's place.
I casually investigated
the others.
Nripati has a mistress...
Sujan Mitra is a doomed lover...
His girlfriend was married off
somewhere else.
No women issues in
Kharag Bahadur and Kapil's life...
Kharag is a gambler...
And Kapil isn't into
such matters!
You know what Satya...
People who are born poor,
aren't ashamed of their status!
But people who become
poor due to situations...
they, are in constant pain...
Artiste Prabal Gupta belongs...
to the second category!
It's like that.
After his father's death...
Prabal faced extreme
financial crisis...
All this...
made him a greedy person.
He earned fair by singing...
But he wasn't contented.
Moreover, marrying an ailing woman...
turned his life dreadful.
Prabal had plans to woo Deepa,
before his wife's death!
He knew...
If he could convince
Deepa to elope...
her family would
later accept it!
He would acquire quite a fortune...
by marrying Deepa!
Deepa got caught,
while trying to escape...
and was hence married off
to Debashish.
As a result,
He planned to
get back Deepa and her wealth.
He knew Debashish
had no one except Deepa,
But murdering him
at first, would have...
made Prabal the prime suspect!
As a result, three
innocent people lost their lives.
Deepa knew nothing
about Prabal's intentions.
Woman psychology!
Oh really!
I didn't mean you Satya!
Listen, Deepa is innocent!
She's a simple girl...
caged by her own people.
- She didn't want that!
- You are never wrong!
Even you lied to me!
There we go again!
The telephone's not working...
No news about you...
I was worried!
That's why I went to you!
I completely understand Satya!
But understand my condition!
Such an interesting case...
That's why I couldn't
attend the wedding!
- Engagement!
Right... I couldn't leave the
case for that you see...
We'll go for the wedding
together, promise!
Satya, I made a mistake...
I didn't?!
You just did, what
you wanted to.
You saved a newly
wedded couple's marriage.
And I'm happy.
- And your death certificate,
Byomkesh?
- Not needed!
I'm alive and, kicking!
Great! By the way,
Mr. Debashish is here!
Coming brother-in-law!
Narrow escape!
Next time, you lie...
Am I mad or what?
Nothing but Satya
(Truth) form now!
Let me...
just once...
God!
The way Byomkesh asked Prabal...
- So you have finally
recovered Mr. Debashish!
Good to see you!
Please take a seat!
I have many places
to go actually...
Next Sunday evening, you all
are invited to my place!
That's great, but...
Your glasses...
Oh... nothing...
Huhh?
Err..why the invitation?
I can share with
you the reason...
It's my... actual
wedding reception that day...
That's why...
Ohh..that's why!
- Greetings.
You must be his wife.
Yes...
You're lucky to have
such a husband!
You're so right!
Huh?
You can say that again!
We all will go!
Please be seated...
Ask Putiram to make some tea!
Some snacks with it...
Yes he came for the first time!
Yes, please be seated...
Some munchies!
Cigarrette?
So...
Have you read
Ajit's writings ever?
How will I earn my living,
if you all don't read my works?
Mine can't be made into films!